Objects.
They are really powerful data structures.
And as you can see it's the second data structure that we're gonna learn in JavaScript.
And as a matter of fact they're also a javascript type.
Objects are collections of property.
Well what does that mean.
Let's take a look by trying to write an object.
So to write an object I can have something like a user and curly brackets.
And within this we can say name equals John I can say age is 34 hobby is soccer.
And maybe we can even put is married to false and the comma at the end here.
I can leave it off or add it.
It works both ways.
But now if I say this and refresh.
Let's see if we have the user object Yep looks like we have named John H 30 for a hobby soccer is married.
False and you see over here that we have an object and it looks a little bit different from an array
doesn't it.
Because if we remember an array looked like this apple and a large so never an array.
If we refresh we have user that looks like this and a list that looks like this.
If I open this up we see that we have a bit of a difference because an object is more dynamic.
I can have properties and value so property name value.
JOHN property age value 34 with an array we had an index 0 which held apple and an index one which held
banana.
Interesting.
OK.
But how do I grab properties because with an array I could do list grab.
The second element with one and I got banana.
What with objects.
Why you can do is you can say user dot name.
John user dot age 34 user dot hobby soccer and user dot is married to false OK.
Now with an array we had methods like pop or push to change the array we even had con cat.
How can we add properties to an object.
Well a very simple.
All we have to do is say something like user dot favourite food and I'll do equals and I'll do spinach.
Now if I look at the user object I have favorite food.
Spinach so we've just expanded the user object.
What about this can I change to is married to true let's say our friend John over here just got married.
Well now if I go to user I have is married to true very cool.
So you see the difference there between an array and an object.
Now one question you might be having is why isn't an array a javascript type but object is well because
in simplified terms technically an array is just something like this.
We even saw it when we looked at the list that we have zero close to Apple 1 equals two banana and 2
equals two orange and you see what the power of data structures are in javascript that idea of a desk
drawer and in that drawer you don't want to have a mass.
You don't want to just put one thing you want to have multiple things but you want them organized so
maybe you want the pens all organized in a section and the files organized in a different section.
And as I mentioned data structures help us organize things better.
So for example an array is really really good at maybe containing a shopping list or a to do list but
an object might be really really good at containing something like user information so if you think
of a game let's say you're building a game where are you controlling this wizard.
Will this wizard how tall the wizard is how powerful it is how many experience point it has.
Well that would be really really good to put in an object because that wizard is an object.
We need properties and values but maybe the spells that could be a list because we can just have a string
of all the spells that the wizard would know.
So does it mean that we can have arrays inside of objects.
Yeah.
If the user was a wizard I can put spell or spells and I can do an array of all the spells Abra Abra
or Shazam or I can do do so now I have an array inside a user.
OK.
What about the other way around can I have a user inside of an array.
Well yeah you can.
Let's say we want to have a list of users over our app or our Web site.
We can have a list of objects where we have user name
Andy who has password secret and we can have
username Jess that has the password.
One two three.
Let's see this in action.
I'm going to refresh and say list and look at that within this list I have the first item with username
and password and the second item username and password so lists are really really good.
Well making lists and those are arrays and objects are really really good at containing objects.
But how do we access them now.
Well let's look at the user first.
If I wanted to access a spell well I could do user dot spells and I'll get an array back but if I wanted
to let's say access Shazam.
Well I would just do user dot spells and then because it's an array I'll get the second item by using
one Shazam.
The other way around for the list I can say list the first item which is Andy and I want to get his
password well I'll do the password and now I get well Andy misspelled this password as you say secret
but we get secret so that's how you access things.
OK.
One other question that I have.
What if I wanted to say that this user John who's a wizard also can shout maybe it can do some sort
of an action.
Can we add a function to an object.
Yeah we can't.
All we have to do is do function and you see the caller changed means we're doing something right.
I can say function console dialog
shouting.
Let's say that and let's see that in action
user.
Make sure that we have the shout there yeah.
And look it has the F four function.
And now if I go user dot shout I remember I have to call the function I get are very cool so I can have
functions inside objects.
And one thing you might notice is hold on a second I thought functions were supposed to say something
like you know alert but this one we have user dot shout.
So this is a little bit different than what we've seen before.
And this is actually called a method and this is another terminology that we're going to learn.
But a function inside an object is a method.
So I can say that shout is a method of user just like with an array like lists.
And if I do pop well pop is a method of list and another thing that you might have realized is console
log what do you think log is that we've been doing all this time well console as it turns out is just
an object.
Do you see that console has all these looks like method on it.
So this entire time we've just been doing console log but I can also do lots to info if I do console
dot info and I said I'll say hello
I said hello.
Nothing changes but what if we do something like error.
Well I can do.
Console dot error and now look at that.
I get the error.
So that's what methods are their functions inside an object.
OK.
I have one last cool thing to show you.
And that is can I do something like this.
Can a user be an empty object.
Yep it works.
So if I get a user too I just get the empty object and there's nothing really in it.
OK what about arrays.
Can I do a list that is empty
Yep I can do a list that is empty
but as you can see I can't really use any properties in user 2 because well it has no properties and
I can't really access the zero or list to zero which is the empty one.
Well because there's nothing in it right now so this reminds us of when we don't declare a variable
we get on defined but with an object and a list we can have something empty and it's not undefined but
there is one thing I want to show you.
There can be an empty object.
So if I do var empty object.
Well it's an empty object but there is something called null and that is our sixth data type and no
is a special type that just says that an object is no so let's see what that means.
If I look at empty object I get an empty object.
If I get a no object it returns no.
So this is a special character that we'll get into later on in the lessons but it just means that there
is nothing in this object.
If I go no object dot name he calls Andy
I can't set property name of no but if I do that for an empty object with which is just an empty object.
Well I can say name equals Andy and look I have Andy so that's what the normal object is it is empty
completely empty and well right now it kind of looks useless like we don't need it.
But I'll show you cases where this is important for us.
OK that was a whole lot of stuff but you've actually learned so much in JavaScript this is pretty much
I would say 80 percent of what you need to know in javascript to work professionally and it sounds like
we didn't cover that much or maybe to some it may feel like we covered a lot.
But in terms of syntax just looking at this we've only learned a few words in a few ways of doing things
with this newfound power.
I'm going to show you how we can build a simple Facebook with what we just learned.
I'll see in the next video.